# Peer Management

If you followed any of the language-specific guides, you now have a
well-functioning network that people will want to join.

## Public Blockchain

Naturally, in a public blockchain, joining is a matter of installing the
correct software and waiting until your node gets discovered.

::: info

Peer discovery is
[under construction](https://github.com/hyperledger/iroha/issues/1375 '#1375').

<!-- Check: a reference about future releases or work in progress -->

:::

## Private Blockchain

In a bank setting, allowing everyone to join at their leisure is a security
nightmare. For safety, automatic discovery of peers is turned off for Iroha
2 in the private blockchain configuration.

### Registering peers

To add a peer to the network, it must be manually registered. Let's discuss
the steps that should be taken in order to complete this process.

#### 1. Grant the user permissions

The user that registers the peer must have the appropriate
`PermissionToken`. This could be granted as part of a `role`, or as part of
a one-time allowance.

How to decide if you need to grant a role? Granting roles makes sense if a
user is to serve as an administrator of sorts, where it's their
responsibility to maintain the peers in the network long-term. A one-time
permission grant is useful when the party registering the peer isn't
responsible for registering peers in general, but the network administrator
doesn't need to (or want to) spend time setting up a new peer.

::: info

Permissions for registering a peer are under construction.

<!-- Check: a reference about future releases or work in progress -->

:::

We discuss permissions and roles with more detail in a
[separate chapter](/blockchain/permissions.md).

#### 2. Set up a peer

After a new peer was granted permissions, it must be set up.

It's a good idea to request information about the peers' configuration in
the network. Your best friend is the `configuration` endpoint of the API
socket. Thus far querying is done manually. Until the
[bootstrapping procedure](https://github.com/hyperledger/iroha/issues/1184 '#1184')
is implemented, you'll have to manually check that the timeouts and batch
sizes match.

To simplify the process, you can ask the network administrator for a
redacted version of `config.json`, which excludes privileged information,
such as `PRIVATE_KEY`s.

#### 3. Submit the instruction

_After_ your peer is running, you should submit the _register peer_
instruction. The peer will go through the handshake process and start
chatting with the network.

::: tip

Submitting a `Register<Peer>` instruction **does not** (and cannot)
instantiate a _new peer process_.

:::

### Unregistering peers

What about unregistering peers? For security reasons this process is
one-sided. The network reaches consensus that it wants to remove a peer,
but the peer itself doesn't know much about why nobody's talking to it.

In most circumstances, if you want to unregister a peer, you want to do so
because it is a Byzantine fault. Just "ghosting" this peer makes the life
of the malicious actor on the network harder.
